README.md, before:

<div align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/codern-org/codern/assets/17198802/43ae20dc-74ba-42d3-9a5d-c77dde27217c" width="96" />
    <h2>Codern</h2>
    <p><b>An open-source Coding Platform</b></p>
</div>

**Codern** is an open-source coding platform that focuses on providing a seamless setup for coding event organizers and participants, enabling them to enhance their programming skills through interactive coding experiences.

> [!NOTE]
> This repository contains the API server of Codern only. If you are interested in exploring how the Codern user interface was created, please visit the link [here](https://github.com/codern-org/ui).

## Proposal

### Architecture

<details><summary>Click to expand!</summary>

```mermaid
%%{init: {'theme': 'neutral' } }%%
graph LR
    nginxIngress --> k8s

    client["Client"]
    client -->|http/https/websocket| nginxIngress

    k8s -.-|monitor| observer
    datastore -.-|monitor| observer
    messageBroker -.-|monitor| observer
    vm2 -.-|monitor| observer

    backend <-->|pub/consume| rabbitmq
    backend -->|query| mysql
    backend -->|query| influxdb
    backend -->|proxy| seaweedfs

    gradingCore <-->|pub/consume| rabbitmq

    subgraph codern["Codern cluster (Cold state)"]
        nginxIngress["Nginx ingress"]

        subgraph vm1["Virtual machine"]
            subgraph k8s["Kubernetes environment"]
                backend["Backend Pod"]
                frontend["Frontend Pod"]
            end

            subgraph docker["Docker environment"]
                subgraph datastore["Datastore containers"]
                    direction TB
                    mysql["MySQL"]
                    influxdb["InfluxDB"]
                    seaweedfs["SeaweedFS"]
                end
                subgraph messageBroker["Message broker"]
                    rabbitmq["RabbitMQ"]
                end
                subgraph observer["Observability containers"]
                    direction TB
                    grafana["Grafana"]
                    prometheus["Prometheus"]
                end
            end
        end
        subgraph vm2["Virtual machine"]
            dockerd
            gradingCore -->|manage container| dockerd

            subgraph docker2["Docker environment"]
                gradingCore["Grading Core"]
            end
        end
    end

style vm1 fill:#ced4da
style vm2 fill:#ced4da
style datastore fill:#e9ecef
style messageBroker fill:#e9ecef
style observer fill:#e9ecef
```

#### We don't need Microservice

Behind the scenes, the Codern API server was built using lighting-fast web framework, [Fiber](https://docs.gofiber.io/). Our codebase was designed with a monolithic architecture. Previosuly, we adopted a Microservice architecture for building everything (see [legacy version](https://github.com/codern-org/legacy)), but we eventually made the decision to switch back to a monolith. We found that the Microservice architecture didn't provide us any significant advantages, only introducing development difficulties. As the result, **we opted for the more streamlined monolithic approach.**

#### Clean architecture

This project follows the Clean Architecture principles, ensuring a modular and maintainable codebase. With clear separation of core business logic from external dependencies, it promotes flixibility and scalability. This approach also facilitates easier testing.

_Thanks to Uncle Bob, for the [article](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html) of Clean Architecture._

#### Logging & Measurement

This project utilizes [InfluxDB](https://www.influxdata.com/), [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) and to achieve a robust log and metric management system. With InfluxDB for time-series storage, Prometheus for monitoring, and Grafana for visualization, we ensure optimal performance and proactive issue detection.

</details>

## Contribution

There are many ways in which you can participate in this project, for example:

- [Submit bugs and feature requests](https://github.com/codern-org/codern/issues).
- Fixing issues and contributing directly to the code base by [submitting pull requests](https://github.com/codern-org/codern/pulls).

## License

Copyright (c) Vectier. All rights reserved.

Commit message:

docs: add 3rd party software notice

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
    <img src="https://github.com/codern-org/codern/assets/17198802/43ae20dc-74ba-42d3-9a5d-c77dde27217c" width="96" />
    <h2>Codern</h2>
    <p><b>An open-source Coding Platform</b></p>
</div>

**Codern** is an open-source coding platform that focuses on providing a seamless setup for coding event organizers and participants, enabling them to enhance their programming skills through interactive coding experiences.

> [!NOTE]
> This repository contains the API server of Codern only. If you are interested in exploring how the Codern user interface was created, please visit the link [here](https://github.com/codern-org/ui).

We utilize [third-party software](https://github.com/Porama6400/GradingCore2), developed by Porama6400, for grading the source code submitted by users on our platform.

## Proposal

### Architecture

<details><summary>Click to expand!</summary>

```mermaid
%%{init: {'theme': 'neutral' } }%%
graph LR
    nginxIngress --> k8s

    client["Client"]
    client -->|http/https/websocket| nginxIngress

    k8s -.-|monitor| observer
    datastore -.-|monitor| observer
    messageBroker -.-|monitor| observer
    vm2 -.-|monitor| observer

    backend <-->|pub/consume| rabbitmq
    backend -->|query| mysql
    backend -->|query| influxdb
    backend -->|proxy| seaweedfs

    gradingCore <-->|pub/consume| rabbitmq

    subgraph codern["Codern cluster (Cold state)"]
        nginxIngress["Nginx ingress"]

        subgraph vm1["Virtual machine"]
            subgraph k8s["Kubernetes environment"]
                backend["Backend Pod"]
                frontend["Frontend Pod"]
            end

            subgraph docker["Docker environment"]
                subgraph datastore["Datastore containers"]
                    direction TB
                    mysql["MySQL"]
                    influxdb["InfluxDB"]
                    seaweedfs["SeaweedFS"]
                end
                subgraph messageBroker["Message broker"]
                    rabbitmq["RabbitMQ"]
                end
                subgraph observer["Observability containers"]
                    direction TB
                    grafana["Grafana"]
                    prometheus["Prometheus"]
                end
            end
        end
        subgraph vm2["Virtual machine"]
            dockerd
            gradingCore -->|manage container| dockerd

            subgraph docker2["Docker environment"]
                gradingCore["Grading Core"]
            end
        end
    end

style vm1 fill:#ced4da
style vm2 fill:#ced4da
style datastore fill:#e9ecef
style messageBroker fill:#e9ecef
style observer fill:#e9ecef
```

#### We don't need Microservice

Behind the scenes, the Codern API server was built using lighting-fast web framework, [Fiber](https://docs.gofiber.io/). Our codebase was designed with a monolithic architecture. Previosuly, we adopted a Microservice architecture for building everything (see [legacy version](https://github.com/codern-org/legacy)), but we eventually made the decision to switch back to a monolith. We found that the Microservice architecture didn't provide us any significant advantages, only introducing development difficulties. As the result, **we opted for the more streamlined monolithic approach.**

#### Clean architecture

This project follows the Clean Architecture principles, ensuring a modular and maintainable codebase. With clear separation of core business logic from external dependencies, it promotes flixibility and scalability. This approach also facilitates easier testing.

_Thanks to Uncle Bob, for the [article](https://blog.cleancoder.com/uncle-bob/2012/08/13/the-clean-architecture.html) of Clean Architecture._

#### Logging & Measurement

This project utilizes [InfluxDB](https://www.influxdata.com/), [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) and to achieve a robust log and metric management system. With InfluxDB for time-series storage, Prometheus for monitoring, and Grafana for visualization, we ensure optimal performance and proactive issue detection.

</details>

## Contribution

There are many ways in which you can participate in this project, for example:

- [Submit bugs and feature requests](https://github.com/codern-org/codern/issues).
- Fixing issues and contributing directly to the code base by [submitting pull requests](https://github.com/codern-org/codern/pulls).

## License

Copyright (c) Vectier. All rights reserved.
